---
title: Colophon
description: 'A website is storage of intellectual property: ideas, writing, thoughts and memories. This is my storage and this document explains how I built it.'
essay: true
---

A website is storage of intellectual property: ideas, writing, thoughts and memories. This is my storage and this document explains how I built it.

## Design

Every property in the stylesheet and every pixel on the screen is planned out and exectuted in the most proficient manner. The design does not have character. It is transparent; the content has character. This website is designed to focus on the aesthetics of letters and the words & sentences they form, not the aesthetics of color and shape.

Care was taken when selecting the typefaces for my site, and even more so when designing the rules of their appearance. In 1936, Eric Gill writes about the form of the book in *An Essay on Typography*. He says, "...it is the reading, not the reading matter, which determines the size of the book and the style of the type..." 

Almost a century later, web designers and developers can still take away from this idea. While a page on a website does not have the constraints of a page in a book, both still have type and both have a responsibility to apeal to the sensitivity and sensibility of the reader. 

> Two things are to be thought of: the type and the margins. Let us consider the margins first.
> <cite>Eric Gill<cite>

DIN typefaces &mdash;especially when in uppercase&mdash; have a very utilitarian style that is well suited for headings. 

_FFDIN_ was designed in 1994 by Albert-Jan Pool in San Francisco to revive the old German _DIN 1451_ typeface, but with greater weight distribution and more character sets. [DIN 1451](http://wikipedia.org/wiki/DIN_1451) is often used for traffic, administrative, and technical applications in Germany. It is actively defined by Deutches Institut fur Normung (DIN), the German Institute for Standardization, on the [standards sheet](http://wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_DIN_standards#DIN_1000_to_DIN_1999) at DIN 1451-4. From 1956 to 2008, DIN 1451 was used on German car number plates and the medium and condensed weights are still used on road signs throughout out Germany and other European countries; a more rare, condensed weight can be found on some older road signs from the 1980's.

Open-Sans, a humanist sans-serif designed by Steve Matteson and commissioned by Google, is used for body text. If you are familiar with the Droid Sans typeface, Open Sans is almost identical with the exception of wider characters and the inclusion of italic variants. As a typeface optimized for legibility across both print and web, Open-Sans was the best sans-serif choice. My typography falls back to Helvetica and Arial if either the font-files do not load or they are not supported.

> A letter... can be courier, which radiates dignity, prestige, and stability.
>
> <cite>Howard Kettler, designer of the Courier typeface</cite>

To style code snippets using a slightly modified version of the Github Style by Vasily Polovnyov and [_Courier_](http://wikipedia.org/wiki/Courier_(typeface), a monospaced slab-serif typeface designed by Howard Kettler. The original Courier typeface was commissioned in 1955 by IBM to resemble the output from a strike-on typewriter and was [made free](http://www.ctan.org/tex-archive/fonts/psfonts/courier) in the 1990's. Courier New, a bolder variant of Courier, was introduced in Windows 3.1 and used by the US State Department as their standard typeface until 2004 (when it was replaced by Times New Roman); however, I prefer the style of the original Courier.

## Development Notes

My main website is generated using Assemble, a static site generator for node.js. It is worth noting that, at the time of writing this, the Assemble core team is still working toward publishing gulp-assemble, the gulp plugin for Assemble, thus Grunt is used instead. 

Gulp is used to compile all JavaScript and stylesheets. In addition, gulp both provides a local webserver for development and handles deploying generated files to a bucket on Amazon Web Services (AWS) S3.

As AWS S3 is a cost effective way to host a static website, I have all files my site deployed to three separate buckets. The first bucket, *pburtchaell.com*, hosts all HTML files generated by Assemble. A second bucket, *storage.pburtchaell.com*, hosts all images, videos, and other large files that my site might link to. The third bucket, *core.purtchaell.com*, hosts CSS and JS files.

### core.pburtchaell.com

There are many reasons why I have separated my files into three buckets, but I will focus on the idea behind the *core.pburtchaell.com* bucket and GitHub repository.

I use the same CSS and JS files across multiple subdomains. Some of these subdomains are hosted on AWS, but others (like this blog) run on Digital Ocean. It does not make since to have the same CSS or JS deployed in each of those environments. If I did, I would have to update multiple files to make one change. Instead, it makes since to have the *core* CSS and JS files that I use everywhere stored in one place, e.g., the core.pburtchaell.com subdomain.

Since the contents of *core.pburtchaell.com* are stored in a private GitHub repository, I can keep an API key to AWS stored in the repository as well. Combine this API key with the AWS plugin for gulp, and deploying a site is as easy as runing the `gulp deploy` command. Moreover, since everything is private and the API key is stored in the repository, I can also tell [Travis-CI](http://travis-ci.com), a continuous integration and deployment service, to automatically deploy the build files when all tests pass. Travis-CI runs on every single commit that I push to the master branch.

### storage.pburtchaell.com

The logic behind the storage.pburtchaell.com bucket is that one does not typically track large format files like images in a git repository. It makes more sense to store those images in a S3 bucket and tell AWS to keep backups of that bucket. Thus, I store my images there and not on GitHub. Not only does it keep things simple, but it also speeds up deployment, cloning and other common tasks not having large files in the repository.

### Analytics

I monitor and track my website with [Segment.io](http://segment.io), which allows me to easily integrate services like Google Analytics, Pingdom and Sentry.

### Browsers

This last topic to cover is fairly simple: [I support the current version of every web browser and one version back](https://medium.com/@pb/browser-support-f9be0bb68f90).
